# Project Description
*What is the purpose of your research project?*

>The purpose of our research project is to examine the **impact** of societal public health factors on obesity rates in the United States by state using minimum-wage data, education attainment levels, and homicide rates as proxies for the general public health of a state, and to see which indicators have a positive relationship with rates of obesity over time.  Theoretically, if a relationship is established, it could be used to make policy recommendations that would have a positive impact on obesity rates/public health. Hopefully with this information, those in power to change public policy, as well as those interested in public policy have a **platform** to present how minimum wage might be related to other large public health issues.

*What other research has been done in this area? Make sure to include 3+ links to related works.*

>The National Bureau of Economic Research has done research on [The Impact of Minimum Wage Rates on Body Weight in the United States](https://www.nber.org/papers/w15485). The research linked the **increasing rate of obesity** with the growing consumption of *increasingly less expensive fast food* as well as the minimum wage in the United States. The researcher analyzed the causation relationship between the minimum wage and the cost of food for families. Also, researchers from the _University of California, Davis_ claimed that they have successfully [links obesity with lowest earnings](https://health.ucdavis.edu/publish/news/newsroom/3940), establishing a "pretty *strong* correlation between obesity and poverty-level wages."
The Center of Disease Control and Prevention has also published a study on  [Prevalence of Obesity Among Adults, by Household Income and Education ](https://www.cdc.gov/mmwr/volumes/66/wr/mm6650a1.htm). The study mainly focused on data of the United States from 2011 to 2014 and analyzed the relationship between Obesity Rates, education levels, and income. The study generally concluded that the correlation was pretty clear for women, as education levels and income rises, the obesity rates drop. However, the researchers claimed that it is more complicated for man. The research did not analyze *income* and *education levels* independently, since there is a pretty clear causation relationship between education levels and income.
Another interesting research was done about [Police‐Recorded Crime and Disparities in Obesity and Blood Pressure Status in Chicago](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC5907588/). The report provides a deeper and clearer look at the associations between several health statuses (obesity) and types of police-recorded crime, including homicide). Although the research was only done and based on data from Chicago, we think it provides a fresh angle of examining the correlation. The research concluded that "recurrent exposure to high rates of violent crime was consistently associated with obesity." Another similar study was done on [Exposure to Neighborhood Crime Is Associated with Lower Levels of Physical Activity and Higher Obesity Risk](https://www.liebertpub.com/doi/abs/10.1089/chi.2018.0165), the research tried to explore a deeper connection between neighborhood security and obesity. The result of this research was pretty interesting, since it suggests that crime is is associated with lower levels of physical activity and higher obesity for adolescent girls, but not boys.

*What is the dataset you'll be working with?  Please include background on who collected the data, where you accessed it, and any additional information we should know about how this data came to be.*

>The data education attainment level comes from the **U.S. Census** accessed from the U.S. Census Bureau website, which collects data by mailing surveys and knocking on the doors of the nation once every ten years.  The homicide data is obtained from FBI Uniform Crime Reports which is a yearly compilation of data reported from law enforcement agencies nationwide.  The minimum wage data is obtained from the U.S. Department of Labor by proxy of *kaggle.com*, and the obesity data was collected via the **CDC’s BRFSS** system of health-related telephone surveys which we pull from the CDC website.  We plan to join these datasets together on state and year, to analyze as one dataset. Overall, the majority of our data seems to be gathered from **government sources**, which is not surprising considering the government has the largest stake in our public policy and public health.

*Who is your target audience?  Depending on the domain of your data, there may be a variety of audiences interested in using the dataset. You should hone in on one of these audiences.*

>Our target audience are U.S. politicians that have the capability to **enact change through public policy**. In particular, those on the city and state side, which may be more *transparent* and *easier to get a hold of* than national politicians. Specifically, we want to find out the potential correlation between minimum wages and obesity, so people, who are participating in politics and national health, may gain some help from our project on how to solve the obesity issue in the United States, the importance of a working wage and education, and wages and their relationship to crime. Through understanding our data is the key to reform and improve our society. While it is hard to predict the future, we can learn from our past through data and hopefully use this information to create a healthier public.
	In order to specifically target politicians who have a say in changing minimum wage aspects, our report will try to have some actionable steps on what more information might be needed, or what policy can be enacted to have some change. While this information may be helpful to U.S. citizens, we feel that taking a political standpoint will have the highest chance of making an impact.

*What should your audience learn from your resource? Please consider specific questions that your project can answer using the data you have identified (that are related to the overarching purpose)*

>Although it is hard to simplify such a complicated question in just a few words, we certainly want the audience to raise their attention on the **impact of our decisions**. How can we manage the current issue in our society like *crime rates* and *obesity rates*? Is there any relationship between the *minimum wage* and *education*? Can we truly improve the health of citizens by increasing the minimum wage? These questions guide our research and investigation. Perhaps more importantly this project will provide a stepping stone to another phase where one has a better idea of what questions to ask as well as where one might find that data. Once again, the capability of understanding our data is the key to reform and improve our society. These specific questions can guide us on the way of justifying our politics and actions.

## Technical Description

*What will be the format of your final product (Shiny app, HTML page, compiled .Rmd file, etc)?*

>Our project will be formatted as a **Shiny Web Application** in order to have varying degrees of interactivity for the end user. Additionally, we’ll bring in some **HTML/CSS** elements to our Shiny webapp to stylize the website. We anticipate the webapp will be hosted on *shinyapps.io*.

*Do you anticipate any specific data collection / data management challenges?*

>Overall it might be difficult to find *relevant information* on the crimes or obesity statistics per state that we require. If we are to tackle *obesity*, *crimes*, and *education status*,  it might be helpful to look at other metrics that eventually result in said obesity or crimes, and finding data might be difficult. However, regarding the main data which is our data on minimum wages per state in the U.S., we seem to have a **reliable source** which should be **relatively easy** to work with.
In regards to data management, it might be difficult to *join* all the data together into one table in a unified format that we can use to create our graphics/tables. I anticipate some difficulties *wrangling the state names*, and *formatting the tables and numbers*.

*What new technical skills will need to learn in order to complete your project?*

>To complete the project, we’ll likely need more practice with **leaflet** in order to create a customizable and interactive map, as well as *HTML/CSS* which we’re not as familiar with. It’s likely tidyr will also be used, which is also a relatively new package.

*What major challenges do you anticipate?*

>The largest challenges we anticipate will be getting all of the data into **one workable table** (or multiple) considering that our data sources aren’t just isolated to one table. Furthermore, it might take a bit of trial and error to get the leaflet map set up to be interactive and display the relevant information that we want. As our team’s experience with **Leaflet** and **Shiny** are *minimal*, I expect there to be some challenges as we debug the issues and try to get everything working. Additionally, it might be difficult to extrapolate real conclusions from our data. Since our data is relatively large and broad, there might be a situation where correlation does not necessarily mean causation. However, to alleviate this issue, it’s crucial that we keep in mind our biases and try to isolate the variable we are targeting.
